# Types of Inheritance :

1. ### Single / Simple Inheritance :

   If we have class A as parent having class B as it's child class . So, class B is inheriting from existing class. This is single/simple inheritance.

2. ### Hierarchical Inheritance

   If we have class A and from this class more than 1 class i.e. class B, C and D are inheriting then this is called Hierarchical Inheritance. 

3. ### Multilevel Inheritance

   If there is a parent class A and from that class there is class B is inheriting and from class B there is class C inheriting then this is known as Multilevel inheritance.

4. ### Multiple Inheritance 

   If there are 2 classes A and B on the same level and from both of them a single class is inheriting i.e. class C then this is called Multiple Inheritance. This is a unique kind of inheritance supported in C++. This is not allowed in JAVA. Due to this for one class there can be one or more base classes.

5. ### Hybrid Inheritance

   There is another kind of inheritance known as hybrid inheritance where we mix different kinds of inheritance models known to us.

   Mixing of hierarchical and multiple or various other kinds of inheritance together gives us hybrid inheritance. Say from parent class A there is inheritance of base classes B and C, and from these two there is another class which inherits i.e. D. This is an example of hybrid inheritance. Where from top we see hierarchical inheritance and at the bottom it is multiple inheritance. This type of inheritance is unique to C++ but on having this kind of inheritance then features of base class A will appear in D via B and C both. Say A has function fun() then this function will be available via B and C class to class D. On calling the function we see there are 2 copies of functions in D which comes from B and C. This is what is known as multi-path inheritance.

   Here ambiguity we face is to call fun( ) function via B or C. To tackle this we have concept of virtual base classes.

   ```c++
   class A {
       // Some stuff inside the class.
   };
   class B : virtual public A // See here we use virtual
   {
       // Some more stuff inside the class.
   };
   class C : virtual public A // Another class same as B
   {
       
   };
   class D : public B, public C
   {
   	// Due to writing virtual then ambiguity is removed of function appearing via B or C
   };
   ```

   When developing one's own project and there needs to be an organization of classes and levels of inheritance for that we have different kinds of inheritance models we saw above.

[Reference Image](https://i.imgur.com/cfPdPtd.png)
