There are more than one way of deriving a child class from parent class. There are multiple methods to do so. There are 3 methods of inheritance i.e.. public, private and protected. By default everything in a class is private.

```c++
class child : public Parent
```

Say there is a class called Parent and has 3 members, private, protected and public. We have a class called child which publicly inherits from the Parent class. Child also has 3 members, private, protected and public. On inheriting from parent class everything is available in children class but only protected and public members are accessible.  Protected becomes protected on coming to child class and public element of parent stays public in child class.

If we create a class GrandChild which inherits from child class, then inside GrandChild class protected and public are accessible.

If we make inheritance of parent as protected as follows : 

```c++
class child : protected Parent
class GrandChild : public child
```

Then protected member stays protected but the public member of Parent class also becomes protected. When GrandChild class inherits from the public child then also public of parent will be inherited in GrandChild as protected.

Way of inheritance affects the objects and grand child classes or sub classes which are subsequently formed.

On making class being inherited as private as follows : 

```c++
class child : private Parent
class GrandChild : public child
```

Doing above leads to both protected and public members of Parent class becoming private. So due to that GrandChild is unable to access any of the members of the Parent class.