# Generalizations vs Specialization

This is a topic related to inheritance. We have a class Rectangle and we are able to create object of rectangle and we can use it by calling the functions area and parameters. Then we have a class for cuboid and this class inherits the class Rectangle. Cuboid can also call the functions and create its own objects. In this case Rectangle was existing and from there we have derived cuboid. So rectangle class was already existing and we have defined a new class with extra features, a specialized class which is cuboid.  Something already exits and you derive the existing class add some more features and this leads to extending of functionality is specialization class.

Say is a class acting as Parent named Shapes for the classes Rectangle, Circle and Quadrilateral. These 3 classes inherit from Shape. So Shape might not exist in real world, it is just a virtual term and on being asked to use a shape then user would draw some instance of shape circle, rectangle but cannot show a shape directly. Something named shape doesn't exist it is just a generalization of various kinds of shapes. We use generalization to bring the classes which are already existing under one common umbrella. Say car Innova, Duster, Fortuner etc. are specific car objects  can be said as specialization of some old car model and all these can be generalized under umbrella of Cars which is the generalization of the 3 cars models mentioned above. A group of class when given a general term easy for reference or a super class which contains all similar classes which can be identified by common name is what's called Generalization of classes. If parent exists and child inherits from parent then that top down approach is **Specialization** as we saw in Rectangle -> Cuboid case. If children elements are integrated into one big parent umbrella after they were created that is the case of **Generalization**. In generalization base class doesn't have anything to give to child class, it's only purpose is to put children into one super class which can be used to reference similar kinds of classes. Generalization is needed for polymorphism. That is same name but different objects and different actions.

Purpose of generalization is to achieve polymorphism and purpose of specialization is to give its child elements some features as parent. So this answers the question that purpose of Inheritance are 2 basic things : Sharing features to child classes and second is to achieve polymorphism.