# <u>**Introduction to Object Oriented Programming**</u>

Object orientation is a strategy of writing programs/software just as there are other strategies for writing programs. Other methodologies include structured programming, procedural programming, modular programming, aspect oriented programming.

One of the famous methodologies to write code is OOP. All the latest languages support OOP. OOP is more related to designing of a software, and deals with internal designing or organization of code. Programming or app development becomes highly systematic and allows us to follow the procedures of engineering to design a software using OOP.

In OOP design how a programmer perceives a problem, plays a crucial part in the designing and the way code is written.

## **<u>Principles of Object Oriented Programming</u>**

1. <u>**Abstraction**</u> : Object Oriented approach gives a systematic method to develop software, apps and solutions in an organised way just how other engineers develop buildings, blue prints or any other things in a systematic manner.This allows the user to not know how the entire program works, just giving user enough idea about how to perform functions he/she wants to perform. Just like a TV or Car, internal mechanism is not available what user can interact with is more than enough to accomplish all the tasks users might need to perform. We write stuff inside class

2. **<u>Encapsulation :</u>**  Another thing we get due to class is encapsulation or data hiding.To avoid mishandling of variables we use data encapsulation. Functions used to access variables and modify them are public, but direct modification of variables is avoided by making variables inside a class as private.
3. **<u>Inheritance :</u>** Say we have written a class A, and after some days we want another class B which has all the features as class A along with some other features too which I will add. Then we can borrow/inherit all the features of A, add our own features to get class B.
4. **<u>Polymorphism :</u>**   C++ polymorphism means that a call to a member function will cause a different function to be executed depending on the type of object that invokes the function.

## **<u>Class vs Object</u>**

It is said that everything in the world is an object and there is some class for it most probably. Let's find out more. Class means to classify and we can take any object in the world and it has to belong to some class, even if it doesn't begins to any class then it means that it belongs to class of objects which do not fit into any other existing classes.

Other example of class can be CSE, ECE, EEE, MECH, CIVIL branches in an engineering college. Classification is based on criteria we adopt. Classification can be of multiple kinds like student and employee, day scholar and hosteller, 9 pointer and one who gets to sleep in dorm room...wait those are same things nvm..you get the idea I have a feeling.

Class is a definition how something should be if it is made from the class, in a sense it is a blueprint. Object is the instance. Say Car is a class and BMW is an instance of it. Blueprint is made once but from that multiple houses are made which are identical in a housing board colony. That means that blueprint is a class telling how every house, an object should be and identical houses or objects are created from that. Data and function together make up a class. We can create class for kind of object we want as per our needs and then create some instances of those classes we made to proceed as per our coding requirement.