# **<u>Reference</u>**

Reference is one of the powerful features of C++ and is exclusive to C++. If in main function we have a variable x and this x has some value and for this x  there is some memory allocated say address 200/201. 

So what is reference ? If we declare another variable of same data type as x called y (suppose) . If we write int y then memory is allocated to it like an int maybe memory location 202/203. But if we write ```int &y``` this is a reference.

So whenever we declare a reference we must initialize then and there only.  

```c++
int x = 10 ; // At memory 200/201
int &y = x ; // Reference with declaration and initialization.
```

**So what is this reference ?**

 Reference is nothing but a nickname of this variable, alias. So now x can be accessed using the name y too. So this leads to memory 200/201 which we were initially calling as x can now be called y as well. We do not need this in same function. In next article we will see how it is used. Same location can now be called with name x as well as y.

If we do x++ then value become 11. Then if we say y++ then value becomes 12. As both x and y are accessing the same memory.

```c++
x++ ; // 10 becomes 11
y++ ; // 11 becomes 12
cout << x ; // Prints 12
cout << y ; // Prints 12
```

It is not required inside the same function we are just learning what reference is.

Now notice the following code snippet with variable a introduced 

```c++
int a ;
a = x;
x = 25 ;
```

Let's see what is the difference between the two statements. We see that both the 2 statements involves x. On one side we have x on RHS of assignment while the second statement has x on LHS.

Where x is on right we call it r-value and when x is on left we call it l-value.  In r-value whatever data is there stored in memory address of x gets stored in a. Currently x has 12 so 12 will be stored in a. When we write x it means the value of variable x. Value is stored in the memory address of a like a literal a constant value. R-value is a data, constant value.

In l-value when we say x = 25 then it means that 25 is to be stored in memory location of x, overwriting or erasing what was there in x earlier. In x = 25, x tells location where to write 25.

When x is at  RHS data of x is stored in the memory location of variable at left. In LHS X tells the address where value on right needs to be stored.

In case of ```int &y = x```  , x is written on RHS and RHS means data. What is given in the name of y, the same address is given for y also, this means x here is l-value.

Reference doesn't consume any memory. Once we declare and initialize a reference we cannot make it a nickname for another variable. Reference is internal pointer.